so now we are going to create a very
very simple game and I'm going to call
that game press the button how'd you
play it you press the button and you win
the game yes very simple I know possibly
the worst game to ever exist but still
the idea is to show how to get things in
game maker working so i'm going to
create a new object i'm going to call it
press i'm going to add event and when
it's created i'm going to create the
variable press and this is this variable
is a binary it's going to be the false
or true so it's 0 or 1 and it's about
have you pressed the button yet now to
start off where the answer is no so
press is going to start at zero and it's
an event and the person you're going to
press is the spacebar so let's just to
be sure I've got the exact right name
fair press you don't want to mix up you
don't look like end up calling it like a
bear i pressed or something you know
simple mistakes like that if you press
the spacebar their press equals 1 now
let's have a draw event so now we're
going to draw some text
draw text and the text is going to be in
the view of 16 16 plus 16 and we are
going to make it display the message you
need to press the button but it's not
always going to say that it only want to
say that if you haven't pressed
important yet so what do we need to do
well all we need to do is we need to
create an if statement to put back
inside so if pressed no sorry press
equals 0 open and close bracket so if r
is equal 0 draw that bit of text let's
copy and paste it and this time is going
to be in fair price equals 1 so if you
have pressed the button it is going to
say congratulations so with a capital C
congratulations you have pressed the
button so bit of a congratulatory
message there from I would hope there
click OK to save the name and stuff so
but a place object press in the room and
hopefully this should work you need to
press the put in ok our press spacebar
congratulations you have pressed the
button so yeah that's a very very simple
you wanna call it game but I guess what
I'm actually going to do now though is
I'm gonna actually make a different
version of press the button the
in place the same way but i'm going to
create the object differently and i do
believe this is actually a better way to
do it so even with something as simple
as press the button to win there were
different ways around going about it
anyway this time we have our variable
which is press this time the variable
isn't going to be a boolean our binary
it's going to be a string it's going to
start off by being the string you have
to press the button you have to press !
can't forget that and we're going to add
the event that if you press the spacebar
it changes the variable press equals
congratulations you have pressed the
button nice thing to have a party about
but still I've got that and now when we
have our draw command we don't have to
do any if statements or whatever we can
directly just say draw text view X view
plus 16 and view why view plus 16 and
now we could just refer to the variable
which is ver press so let's see if this
works it should do major GameMaker
studio I know it doesn't but I know why
because I'm an idiot and I forgot to
actually put the object inside click
create a new object i forgot to put it
inside the room anyway I make mistakes
too you know simple mistakes I may be
teaching what I still do make some
simple mistakes over there we have it
you have to press the button
congratulation to you press the button
so
how you know how to how to make things
happen when you press a button how to
make text change when you press a button